I so this is a little bit of context
around the work that we're doing
regarding decentralized data stewardship
and it's Michelle Hertzfeld I'm gonna
ask you to hop on towards the end just
to introduce you so this is providing a
little bit of the thinking context
around work we're doing with for example
data together our work around i p FS for
large volumes work with ipfs cluster
pinning services allow Laius blockless
all of those things fit together under
this heading of decentralized data
stewardship and this is a 20 minute talk
that i'm condensing down to five so
we'll see how I do for time so when we
talk about this decentralized web stuff
often we're talking about network
topologies and there's this other aspect
of decentralization of asking who can
actually hold the data who can actually
possess the data that they're relying on
or that they've created and how do we
how do we extract the data that we've
created in these centralized systems and
take it into our own possession what
does that look like how do we do that
and the the point that I've been making
a lot within the institutions like
libraries and archives is that the
decentralized web is still forming and
so if people want the this new version
of the web to be built in a way that
goes deeper than profit motives that's
that is built around structures and
patterns that go deeper than profit
motives those organizations need to step
up and actually build themselves in this
new web so what does that look like I
often point to this idea of libraries
asking the question why did we create
libraries in the first place that
libraries worked really well for print
publications it was a place where if you
had information that you want to be
available to your whole community you
could put it into the holdings of the
library or nominate it for the library
to put in their holdings and then that
library exists to make it available for
everyone but when the web came along we
all dropped the ball on that because we
thought the web would make information
ubiquitous because we thought the web
was like a library because you can use a
library or the web to find and access
information but libraries are actually a
means of sharing possession of an infant
of information which the web is not and
so that's where we need to reincorporate
how do we how do we share possession of
information resources particularly
digital information and this is where
location addressing Bercy content
addressing becomes so central this is
why ipfs is so important for
decentralized data stewardship is
because with a location addressed
approach every time you make a copy it
becomes actually a distinct information
resource it is a different thing in the
view of a location address web and so
they end up competing with each other
rather than reinforcing each other and
when you consider the economics of that
of whoever controls the central one of
those locations if they become the
location that you go to to find or
create information they control the
machinery of communication which means
that any of the work that you do of
creating information in that system is
is it's a it's labor that you're putting
into that system the product of that
labor ends up defaulting to being the
property of whoever runs that machinery
and so that looks a whole lot like wage
labor great examples sound cloud there
people freaked out when they're worried
that sound cloud is gonna be shut down
Twitter shutting down vine and people
sort of mourning the loss of vine using
location address links pointing to a
system that they know is being shut down
and so this whole situation of competing
to be the location it looks a lot like
colonialism the people who have the
power and the resources carving up a
constrained resource to to own their
little pieces of it and this also
reaches into our personal lives when
we're sharing information about people
dying like major events in your life all
those things are becoming those records
of our lives and our culture are
becoming the property of of the of those
central parties who and this is where
the parallel to colonialism becomes
relevant or especially relevant because
we also have examples of how to undo
that and this is where Gandhi in
resisting the British Empire's rule of
India used this principle of Swadeshi or
self-sufficiency in this the example of
spinning your own building your own spin
Wheelan spinning your own cotton to make
your own clothes
rather than relying on a machinery that
exported that cotton to another country
produced it and then sold it back to you
and so we need ways to possess and
exchange the information we rely on
individually and collectively and so
that the information should be held by
the people who rely on in the
communities and institutions should be
aggregating that information and the
resources to possess that information so
that it can be accessible so that it's
discoverable and so that it can be
preserved for the long-term so that's
where we get back to this idea of
sharing possession of information
resources do I really have more than a
minute left on that time okay all right
so yeah new patterns around all of that
we've been in this collaboration called
data together which is which is
specifically sort of spelling out the
model there and we've recently just
hired Michelle Hertzfeld
to be leading decentralized data
stewardship for all these activities so
thank you and watch for lots lots a
whole lot more in that domain